---
title: My Data Path
date: 2023-09-01 01:00:00 +0700
categories: [faq]
tags: [my data path]
---

## My Short Data Journey

My journey commenced with the Six Sigma methodology, renowned for its robust reliance on data and its strong emphasis on elements such as root cause analysis, comprehensive data analysis, data collection, planning, governance, and measurement—essentially encompassing all facets related to data. Even post-completion of improvement projects, the perpetual collection of data and measurements is imperative to ensure the sustained effectiveness and ongoing benefits for the business.

In essence, the realms of data analytics and Six Sigma in the analyzing step are intricately interconnected. Data analytics, defined as the systematic examination and interpretation of datasets to draw meaningful conclusions, identify patterns, and support decision-making, utilizes various techniques, tools, and technologies to analyze complex datasets. Applied across diverse industries, data analytics serves to gain insights, make predictions, and optimize processes. It encompasses descriptive analytics for summarizing data, predictive analytics for forecasting trends, and prescriptive analytics for decision-making recommendations—aligning seamlessly with the disciplined approach of Six Sigma in the analyzing step.

Data analytics consistently involves data planning and collection, a facet deeply intertwined with the Measure step in Six Sigma. From an IIBA perspective, the planning of necessary data and subsequent data collection plans are imperative post the production of a business case.

Beyond data analytics, Six Sigma underscores the significance of data governance, including metadata, to preserve improvement results and avert redundant efforts within an organization. In today's modern methodologies, knowledge management is implemented for the maintenance and accessible retrieval of case studies within the organization.

My foray into IoT technology underscored the importance of data structure, prompting me to delve into SQL, data engineering, and data mart-data warehouse concepts. In the IoT domain, where data crucial for analysis is predominantly stored in databases, acquiring SQL query knowledge becomes indispensable. However, navigating the intricacies of various data formats and databases required continual learning to extract insights, identify improvement potentials, validate improvements, and address diverse data-related objectives.
